### language

*It's said that mathematics is the language of nature. If so, then, the physics is its poetry. Nature started to whisper into our ears when humans started try to understand the world we live on. Physicists is a group of people who sing with equations. a song of How universe works as we find it. construct mathematical models of world, and then test the predictions of such models against observation and experiments. This is the way physicists Dialogue with Nature.*

### The third quantum revolution

The achievement of Bose-Einstein condensation (BEC) in dilute gases in 1995 (Anderson et al., 1995; Bradley et al., 1995; Davis et al., 1995) marks the beginning of a new era. For the so-called AMO community - comprising atomic, molecular, optics, and quantum optics scientists - it soon became evident that condensed-matter physics, i.e. degenerate quantum many-body systems, could be in reach. The condensed-matter community were much more sceptical at that stage. They argued that, in the end, what had been achieved experimentally was a regime of weakly interacting Bose gases: a domain that had been thoroughly investigated by condensed-matter theorists in the 1950 s and 1960 s (Fetter and Walecka, 1971; Mahan, 1993). For solid state/condensed matter experts the fact that the AMO experiments dealt with confined systems of finite size and typically inhomogeneous densities was a technical issue rather than a question of fundamental importance. Nonetheless, the Nobel foundation awarded its yearly prize for physics in 2001 to E. A. Cornell, C. E. Wieman, and W. Ketterle 'for the achievement of BEC in dilute gases of alkali atoms, and for early fundamental studies of the properties of the condensates' (Cornell and Wieman, 2002; Ketterle, 2002). However, today we can see that, due to the efforts of the whole community, these fundamental studies have enriched the standard 'condensed matter' understanding of the static and dynamical properties of weakly interacting Bose gases (Pitaevskii and Stringari, 2003).

From the very beginning the AMO community pushed BEC physics towards new regimes and new challenges. Progress was spectacular, and at the beginning of the third millennium is was clear, both for the AMO and condensed-matter communities, that they were entering a truly new quantum era, with unprecedented possibilities for the control of many-body systems. In particular, it became clear that the regime of strongly correlated systems might be reached with ultracold atoms and/or molecules. In 1999 , a few years after the first observation of BEC, atomic degenerate Fermi gases were achieved (De Marco and Jin, 1999; Schreck et al., 2001; Truscott et al., 2001) paving the way toward the observations of Fermi superfluidity. This is described, in the weak interaction limit, by the BardeenCooper-Schrieffer theory (BCS) (Fetter and Walecka, 1971) and the so called BEC-BCS crossover in the limit of strong correlations. For recent reviews reporting the intense activity in this field see Giorgini et al. (2008) and Bloch et al. (2008). Earlier, following the seminal proposal by Jaksch et al. (1998), Greiner et al. (2002) had observed the signatures of the quantum phase transition from the superfluid to the so-called Mott-insulator (MI) state for bosons confined in an optical lattice.

Nowadays, ultracold atomic and molecular systems are at the frontiers of modern quantum physics, and are considered to provide the most controllable systems for the study of many-body physics. It is believed that these systems will also find highly non-trivial applications in quantum information and quantum metrology and will serve as powerful quantum simulators. At the theory level, the broadness of the different fields touched by ultracold atoms has led to a 'grand unification', where AMO, condensed-matter, nuclearphysics, and even high-energy physics theorists are involved. For reviews see Lewenstein et al. (2007) and Bloch et al. (2008).

After the first quantum revolution at the beginning of the twentieth century came a second one associated with the name of John Bell and the experimental quest for non-locality of quantum mechanics and experimental control over single-, or few-particle systems - see in particular Alain Aspect's introduction to the famous Bell's book (Bell, 2004). Now we are witnessing the third one: the quantum revolution associated with control over macroscopic quantum systems and the rise of quantum technologies.

